EZP-30298 Add doc for content in-memory cache, LFU and small fixes on cache doc (#605)
ezsystems/developer-documentation: docs/guide/persistence_cache.md

**Cache service**

> The underlying cache system is exposed as a `ezpublish.cache_pool` service, and can be reused by any other service as described in the [Using Cache service](#using-cache-service) section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The underlying cache system is exposed as an `ezpublish.cache_pool` service, and can be reused by any other service as described in the [Using Cache service](#using-cache-service) section.
```

#### In-Memory cache configuration

Persistence cache layer caches selected objects in-memory for a short time.
It avoids loading repeatedly the same data from e.g. a remote Redis instance, which can take up to 4-5ms per call due to the network latency and Redis instance load.

> The cache is organized in 2 pools, one for metadata which is not updated too often, and one for content related objects that is only meant as a very short-lived burst cache.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The cache is organized in 2 pools, one for metadata which is not updated frequently, and one for content related objects that is only meant as a short-lived burst cache.
```

Limit is organized using a [least frequently used (LFU)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Least_frequently_used) approach.

> It makes sure heavily used objects will stay in-memory until expired, and those not used as much will be bulk evicted from cache every time the maximum number of cache items is reached.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It makes sure repeatedly used objects will stay in-memory until expired, and those seldom used will be bulk evicted from cache every time the maximum number of cache items is reached.
```

> This in-memory cache will be purged _(for the current PHP process)_ when clearing it using any of the mentioned methods below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This in-memory cache will be purged *(for the current PHP process)* when clearing it using any of the mentioned methods below.
```

In-Memory cache is configured globally, and has the following default settings:

```yml
parameters:
    # Config for metadata cache pool, here showing default config
    # ttl: Maximum number of  milliseconds objects are kept in-memory (3000ms = 3s)
    ezpublish.spi.persistence.cache.inmemory.ttl: 3000
    # limit: Maximum number of cache objects to place in-memory, to avoid consuming too much memory
    ezpublish.spi.persistence.cache.inmemory.limit: 100
    # enabled: Is the in-memory cache enabled
    ezpublish.spi.persistence.cache.inmemory.enable: true

    # Config for content cache pool, here showing default config
    ## WARNING: TTL is on purpose low to avoid getting outdated data in prod! For dev environment, you can safely increase it (e.g. by x3)
    ezpublish.spi.persistence.cache.inmemory.content.ttl: 300
    ezpublish.spi.persistence.cache.inmemory.content.limit: 100
    ezpublish.spi.persistence.cache.inmemory.content.enable: true
```

!!! caution "In-Memory cache is per-process"

    **TTL and Limit need to have a low value.** Setting limit high will increase memory use.

>     High TTL value also increase expotentially risk for system acting on stale metadata (e.g. Content Type definitions).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    High TTL value also increases exponentially risk for system acting on stale metadata (e.g. Content Type definitions).
```

>     The only case where it is safe to increase these values is for dev environment with single concurrency on writes, for prod environment you should only consider reducing them if you have heavy concurrency writes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The only case where it is safe to increase these values is for dev environment with single concurrency on writes.
    In prod environment you should only consider reducing them if you have heavy concurrency writes.
```

See [Redis Cache Adapter in Symfony documentation](https://symfony.com/doc/3.4/components/cache/adapters/redis_adapter.html#configure-the-connection)
for information on how to configure Redis.

Out of the box in `app/config/cache_pool/cache.redis.yml` you'll find a default example that can be used.

> For eZ Platform Cloud/Platform.sh; This is automatically configured in `app/config/env/platformsh.php` if you have enabled redis as `rediscache` platform.sh service.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For eZ Platform Cloud/Platform.sh: This is automatically configured in `app/config/env/platformsh.php` if you have enabled Redis as `rediscache` Platform.sh service.
```

> For anything else you can enabled it with environment variables detected by `app/config/env/generic.php`; If you set the following environment variables `export CACHE_POOL="cache.redis" CACHE_DSN="secret@example.com:1234/13"`, it will result in config like this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For anything else, you can enable it with environment variables detected automatically by `app/config/env/generic.php`. For instance, if you set the following environment variables `export CACHE_POOL="cache.redis" CACHE_DSN="secret@example.com:1234/13" CACHE_NAMESPACE="ez"`, it will result in config like this:
```

Author: you don't need to set `CACHE_NAMESPACE="ez"` as it's the default, that is kind of the point here for people to become aware of there being a namespace option also which has default value.

On this one you did not change `;` to `:` btw

> For anything else, you can enable it with environment variables detected automatically by `app/config/env/generic.php`. For instance, if you set the following environment variables `export CACHE_POOL="cache.redis" CACHE_DSN="secret@example.com:1234/13"`, it will result in config like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For anything else, you can enable it with environment variables detected automatically by `app/config/env/generic.php`.
For instance, if you set the following environment variables `export CACHE_POOL="cache.redis" CACHE_DSN="secret@example.com:1234/13"`, it will result in config like this:
```

Out of the box in `app/config/cache_pool/cache.redis.yml` you'll find a default example that can be used.

> !!! cloud "eZ Platform Cloud"

Author: note: this formating can be used on the same sentence for memcached

Reviewer 3: You're right! I added the same note for the memecached fragment, thanks! :)

            - name: cache.pool
              clearer: cache.app_clearer
              provider: 'redis://secret@example.com:1234/13'
              # Default CACHE_NAMESPACE value, see app/config/cache_pool/cache.redis.yml for usage with e.g. multi repo.
              namespace: 'ez'
```

See `app/config/default_parameters.yml` and `app/config/cache_pool/cache.redis.yml` for further details on `CACHE_POOL`, `CACHE_DSN` and `CACHE_NAMESPACE`.

!!! caution "Clearing Redis cache"

    The regular `php bin/console cache:clear` command does not clear Redis persistence cache.

>     To clear it, use a dedicated Symfony command to clear the pool you have configured: `php bin/console cache:pool:clear cache.redis`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Use a dedicated Symfony command to clear the pool you have configured: `php bin/console cache:pool:clear cache.redis`.
```

See [Memcached Cache Adapter in Symfony documentation](https://symfony.com/doc/3.4/components/cache/adapters/memcached_adapter.html#configure-the-connection)
for information on how to configure Memcached.

Out of the box in `app/config/cache_pool/cache.memcached.yml` you'll find a default example that can be used.

> For eZ Platform Cloud/Platform.sh; This is automatically configured in `app/config/env/platformsh.php` if you have enabled memcached as `cache` platform.sh service.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For eZ Platform Cloud/Platform.sh: This is automatically configured in `app/config/env/platformsh.php` if you have enabled Memcached as `cache` Platform.sh service.
```

> For anything else you can enabled it with environment variables detected by `app/config/env/generic.php`; If you set the following environment variables `export CACHE_POOL="cache.memcached" CACHE_DSN="user:pass@localhost?weight=33"`, it will result in config like this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For anything else, you can enable it with environment variables detected automatically by `app/config/env/generic.php`. For instance, if you set the following environment variables `export CACHE_POOL="cache.memcached" CACHE_DSN="user:pass@localhost?weight=33" CACHE_NAMESPACE="ez"`, it will result in config like this:
```

See [Memcached Cache Adapter in Symfony documentation](https://symfony.com/doc/3.4/components/cache/adapters/memcached_adapter.html#configure-the-connection)
for information on how to configure Memcached.

Out of the box in `app/config/cache_pool/cache.memcached.yml` you'll find a default example that can be used.

For eZ Platform Cloud/Platform.sh: This is automatically configured in `app/config/env/platformsh.php` if you have enabled Memcached as `cache` Platform.sh service.

> For anything else, you can enable it with environment variables detected automatically by `app/config/env/generic.php`. For instance, if you set the following environment variables `export CACHE_POOL="cache.memcached" CACHE_DSN="user:pass@localhost?weight=33"`, it will result in config like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For anything else, you can enable it with environment variables detected automatically by `app/config/env/generic.php`.
For instance, if you set the following environment variables `export CACHE_POOL="cache.memcached" CACHE_DSN="user:pass@localhost?weight=33"`, it will result in config like this:
```

            - name: cache.pool
              clearer: cache.app_clearer
              provider: 'memcached://user:pass@localhost?weight=33'
              # Default CACHE_NAMESPACE value, see app/config/cache_pool/cache.redis.yml for usage with e.g. multi repo.
              namespace: 'ez'
```

See `app/config/default_parameters.yml` and `app/config/cache_pool/cache.memcached.yml` for further details on `CACHE_POOL`, `CACHE_DSN` and `CACHE_NAMESPACE`.

!!! caution "Clearing Memcached cache"

    The regular `php bin/console cache:clear` command does not clear Memcached persistence cache.

>     To clear it, use a dedicated Symfony command to clear the pool you have configured: `php bin/console cache:pool:clear cache.memcached`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Use a dedicated Symfony command to clear the pool you have configured: `php bin/console cache:pool:clear cache.memcached`.
```
